
		<title>CAT Draft Minutes 2016-04-27</title>
		<link>http://www.isotc154.org/cat-draft-minutes-2016-04-27</link>
		<comments>http://www.isotc154.org/cat-draft-minutes-2016-04-27#comments</comments>
		<pubDate>Wed, 27 Apr 2016 22:27:00 +0000</pubDate>
		<dc:creator><![CDATA[admin]]></dc:creator>
				<category><![CDATA[CAT Minutes]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[CAT]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[ISO 14533]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[ISO 8601]]></category>
		<category><![CDATA[Plenary]]></category>

		<guid isPermaLink="false">http://www.isotc154.org/?p=6658</guid>
		<description><![CDATA[ISO/TC154 CAT Conference Call<br />
27 April 2016, 14:00 UTC<br />
Participants: Klaus-Dieter Naujok (K-DN), JianFang Zhang (JFZ), Mei-Li Chen (MLC), Peter Rybar (PR), Jasmine Chang (JC), Francois Vuilleumier (FV), Bernd Bösler (BB)<br />
Excused: Sue Probert (SP)<br />
<br />
Approval of Agenda &#8211; approved<br />
Approval of 27 April 2016 Meeting Minutes &#8211; approved<br />
Working Group and Project Team Updates<br />
<br />
JWG1/MA (EDIFACT Syntax)<br />
<br />
Nothing to report<br />
<br />
<br />
WG 5 (Representation of dates and times)<br />
<br />
The two ballots closed. K-DN to check with SOSMT and BSI to ...]]></description>
				<content:encoded><![CDATA[<h3 id="isotc154catconferencecall">ISO/TC154 CAT Conference Call</h3>
<h4 id="april20161400utc">27 April 2016, 14:00 UTC</h4>
<p><strong>Participants:</strong> Klaus-Dieter Naujok (K-DN), JianFang Zhang (JFZ), Mei-Li Chen (MLC), Peter Rybar (PR), Jasmine Chang (JC), Francois Vuilleumier (FV), Bernd Bösler (BB)<br />
<strong>Excused:</strong> Sue Probert (SP)</p>
<ol>
<li>Approval of Agenda &#8211; <strong>approved</strong></li>
<li>Approval of <a href="http://www.isotc154.org/cat-draft-minutes-2016-04-27">27 April 2016 Meeting Minutes</a> &#8211; <strong>approved</strong></li>
<li>Working Group and Project Team Updates
<ul>
<li>JWG1/MA (EDIFACT Syntax)
<ul>
<li>Nothing to report</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>WG 5 (Representation of dates and times)
<ul>
<li>The two ballots closed. K-DN to check with SOSMT and BSI to change vote on ISO 8601–1 &amp; 8601–2 NWIP Ballots from accepting attached CD from 20.00 (Preparatory stage started) to 30.00 (Committee draft (CD) registered).</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>WG 6 (Trusted eCommunication)
<ul>
<li>PT1 &#8211; Long term signature profiles for PDF advanced electronic signatures (PAdES)
<ul>
<li>PT finished its work, ready for DIS Ballot.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>PT2 &#8211; Trusted Communication Platforms for Electronic Documents
<ul>
<li>Progressing, next meeting will scheduled next week.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>PT3 &#8211; Trusted mobile e-document framework
<ul>
<li>Meeting scheduled 5 May.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Liaison Updates
<ul>
<li>Nothing to report</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>MoU/MG Update
<ul>
<li>Nothing to report</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Old Business
<ul>
<li>ISO/TC 154 Chairmanship Update
<ul>
<li>JFZ to send notice to ISO/TMB about K-DN standing for another term as TC chairperson.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Business Semantic Thesaurus ISO/TS 16668, formally BSR
<ul>
<li>DIN is currently asking its members to act as proposer for the project.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>New Business
<ul>
<li>UN/CEFACT Plenary Update
<ul>
<li>Preliminary meeting schedule:
<ul>
<li>17 Oct &#8211; WG 6/PT 1 &#8211; all day</li>
<li>18 Oct &#8211; WG 6/PT 2 &#8211; morning</li>
<li>18 Oct &#8211; WG 6/PT 3 &#8211; afternoon</li>
<li>19 Oct &#8211; WG 5 &#8211; all day</li>
<li>20 Oct &#8211; NWIP (TBA) &#8211; morning</li>
<li>20 Oct &#8211; WG 5 &#8211; afternoon</li>
<li>21 Oct &#8211; ISO/TC 154 Plenary &#8211; all day</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Other Business
<ul>
<li>CAT Membership
<ul>
<li>Question was raised about sensitivity of a possible conflict with a member being on the leadership committee of the TC and an external liaison organization. It was agreed to avoid any such conflict that no CAT member should be a member of another internal ISO TC or external liaison leadership group, such as steering groups, executive group and/or bureau. This is to protect the member from being put in a conflicting position to report to either organizations what is being addressed by the other organization in question.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Next Meeting: <strong>11 May 2016, starting at 14:00 UTC</strong></li>
</ol>
]]></content:encoded>
			<wfw:commentRss>http://www.isotc154.org/cat-draft-minutes-2016-04-27/feed</wfw:commentRss>
		<slash:comments>1</slash:comments>
		</item>
		<item>