---
permalink: "/minutes/2017-07-26/"
date: 2017-07-26T00:00:00Z
cat: CAT Minutes
subtitle: ISO/TC154 CAT Conference Call
tags:  [ISO CS, Liaison]
title: ISO/TC 154 CAT Meeting Minutes 2017-07-26
scheduled_time: 8:00-9:30pm Beijing Time (UTC+8)

participants:
  - Hongru (Judy) Zhu
  - Roman Grahle
  - Bernd Bösler
  - Ray Denenberg
  - Jasmine Jang
  - Peter Ryber
  - Peter Plapper
  - Mei-Li Chen
  - Linda Wang
  - Dapeng (Max) Liu
secretariat: JianFang Zhang
chair: Hongru (Judy) Zhu
---

== Approval of Agenda

Approved.

== Approval of 07 June 2017 Meeting Minutes

Approved.


=== New TC chair

TMB ballot for new TC chair
The TMB ballot result (document N895) approved the new TC154 chair, Hongru (Judy) Zhu.

== Working Group and Project Team Updates

=== JWG 1/MA (EDIFACT Syntax)

The replacement of the JWG 1 by a Registration Authority (RA) or Maintenance Agency (MA) has been discussed. In case of the establishment of a RA there would be only the chance to deal with entries to the EDIFACT Syntax Code Directory. If the decision is going for a MA there would be the chance to deal also with further revisions of ISO 9735. In principal, to keep all possibilities open, the establishment of a MA would be more applicable. Another issue is related to the resources. DIN who is currently holding the JWG 1 secretariat indicated that it is not able to keep the secretariat, independent of the transition from a JWG to a MA or RA. Finally both issues, the kind of Agency and the allocation of a new secretariat, need to be further discussed and solved at the coming TC plenary meeting.

=== WG 5 (Representation of dates and times)

==== ISO/DIS 8601-1 Ballot Disposition

The group thanked Bernd for his work on the resolution of comments of ISO/DIS 8601-1. Bernd and Jianfang will do the further work on the open issues (marked in the comments table in yellow) in order to prepare the FDIS manuscript for the next step.

Bernd pointed out that he just volunteered for this project without being the official project leader.

==== ISO/DIS 8601-2 Ballot Disposition

The group thanked Ray for his work on the resolution of comments of ISO/DIS 8601-2 and the provision of an updated manuscript including the comments. Ray agreed to be the project leader of ISO 8601-2.

Jianfang will support Ray via a Webex meeting in order to prepare as well the FDIS manuscript for the next step and for any further organizational issues.

==== Call for new WG 5 convener

Ray will take this position currently by organize and coordinate the meetings in WG5 to discuss the technical comments. , and jianfang will support him on the organization and webex etc.

==== Liaison eligibility of Ray

Finished.

=== WG 6 (Trusted eCommunication)

==== Liaison report of ETSI STF 523

Jasmine briefly shared the report and she shall update a new version of liaison report in the plenary meeting. She shall invite related ETSI delegate to join the plenary meeting.

==== PT1: ISO 14533 Long term signature profiles

* ISO/WD 14533-4 - still waiting for ETSI documents

==== PT2: ISO/CD 19626-1 Trusted Communication Platforms for Electronic Documents

The CD ballot of 19626-1 had passed.

The first draft of 19626-2 will be finished in September.

==== PT3 - ISO/WD 20415 Trusted mobile e-document framework

No update.

=== WG 7 (digital Business)

==== New WG 7 convener

CIB ballot (closed on 16th June) approved the new WG7 convener, Peter
Plapper.

==== PT1 - ISO/TS WD 21981 Business Semantics Thesaurus (BST)

From the email offline, Jianfang has told Peter that Anders will be the project leader. Which needs to be confirmed offline. And next time, Anders will be invited for the CAT meeting.

==== PT2: ISO/WD 22468 Value Stream Management (VSM)

Updated version will be ready in plenary meeting. Peter will organize the joint meeting with TC184 after a first version later as a discussion basis, which is not in a rush. And also it can have this kind of discussion in the next MoU meeting. Jianfang can help on the details. Peter, pls go ahead to discuss with Jianfang offline.

==== PT3 - XMLFACT

This project is cancelled.

=== ISO/DTR 18262 ODIF

Will be discussed on the plenary meeting.


== Old Business

No update.

* OAGi (Open Applications Group, Inc.) Fast-Track of "`OAGIS - A Specification for an Enterprise Business Canonical`"

== Open Ballots

No discussion.

* Systematic Reviews:
** Guidance on ISO Systematic Review Process;
ISO 14533-2:2012 start at 2017-07-15
** ISO/CD 19626-1 ballot close at 2017-07-21


== Other Business

=== New working group proposal

Max from Alibaba Group presented a new working group proposal of logistics data elements and process.

Conclusion: it is required further clarification with other TC, and then temporarily TC 154 will only form an ad hoc group to discuss the object and scope in detail and analyse the standardization gaps compared with other ISO TCs and other organizations.

Herein, the interested and related people like Jasmine, Ray, Bernd and other interested experts may join the further discussion offline. Alibaba will send emails to related people to have a further discussion, and new status is expected to bring back on next Sept meeting.

=== CAT or CAG

Still CAT shall be used.

=== TC154 new public website

Based on the discussion, a specific TC 154 web site is required, and it needs Henry and Jianfang’s help to set up this website, which was said by Henry before in the email, so when Henry came back from vacation, jianfang pls ask for henry’s help on this.

And as for the contents of the website, Jianfang needs to ask for a participation to try to organize a communication group from the members to support the website contents, to see how many people can contribute, if not many, then we will try to set up one in a simple way by just show the basic TC154 introduction, CAT meeting agenda and minutes etc..

=== Agenda of Virtual plenary meeting

Date: 2017-10-27, starting at 16:00, end at 20:00 (UTC +8:00)

No comments on the current agenda, later, the Agenda will be shared after the
meeting. Any suggestions and comments can be further discussed.



== Next Meeting

6 September 2017, starting at 8:00pm (UTC +8:00)
