---
permalink: "/minutes/2017-12-06/"
date: 2017-12-06T00:00:00Z
cat: CAT Minutes
subtitle: ISO/TC154 CAT Conference Call
tags:  [ISO CS, Liaison]
title: ISO/TC 154 CAT Meeting Minutes 2017-12-06
scheduled_time: 8:00-9:10pm Beijing Time (UTC+8)

participants:
  - Peter Ryber
  - Jasmine
  - Yan Zhang
  - Sue Probert
  - Anders Grangard
  - Ronald Tse
  - Linda Wang
  - Dapeng (Max) Liu

excused:
  - Ray Denenberg
  - Peter Plapper
secretariat: JianFang Zhang
chair: Hongru (Judy) Zhu
---

== Approval of Agenda

Approved.

== Approval of 11th October 2017 Meeting Minutes

Approved.


== 27th Oct 2017 Plenary Meeting Minutes, Resolutions and Actions

Simple discussion has been made. Chair asked people to continue the discussion on the meeting minutes, and also only the edit changes can be made on the meeting minutes. The main revision to the meeting minutes and actions can be made with TC approval later.

For the resolution 2017-17 (appointment of Dapeng (Max)Liu as JWG8 convenor), Jasmine asked that if Max has officially registered as the committee member of ISO/TC 154. Secretary clarified by email after the meeting that Max(Da peng Liu) has officially been registered as ISO/TC 154/JWG1 in the role of committee member, but has not officially registered as committee member of ISO/TC 154 now.

Concern on when to implement the resolutions 16 and 17 has been received also. Jian fang said the resolutions 16 and 17 may need to suspended until a new work item proposal has been approved. Meeting has noticed about this. Yet some people said it needs further clarification. As for how to do ahead, based on the offline email discussion, this will be decided after the call suggested by Henry among chair, secretary and Henry.

Once it is clarified, then we can know how to go forward with the resolutions 16 and 17. Anyway, this is a procedure issue.


== Working Group and Project Team Updates

=== JWG 1/MA (EDIFACT Syntax)

Yan Zhang.

ISO side resources should be considered. Sue mentioned that experts from Germany (DIN) would join later.

JWG1 is doing the joint project by UNECE and ISO work, not just the ISO work.

Anders will lead the discussion about new project proposal.


=== WG 5 (Representation of dates and times)


==== ISO/DIS 8601-1 Ballot Disposition


==== ISO/DIS 8601-2 Ballot Disposition

No detail discussion for the absence of Ray. He mentioned in the email before the CAT meeting that he is preparing the January meeting for the FDIS draft discussion.

=== WG 6 (Trusted eCommunication)

Jasmine.

Based on the recent email discussion, chair kindly reminded that WG convener and project leader should make sure that the project was discussed fully by all project members, some member did not review this enough. Secretary should provide the corresponding ISO process guide and IT tools such as livelink guide.

==== PT1 -ISO 14533 Long term signature profiles

===== ISO/WD 14533-4

Webex comment resolution meeting held in 12-04,next meeting will be in 12-20. After harmonization, CD ballot will be applied with updated draft.

===== ISO 14533-2

==== PT2 -ISO/CD 19626-1 Trusted Communication Platforms for Electronic Documents

===== ISO/CD19626-1

Webex meeting was held on 11-22 and most of comments were solved.

DIS version will submit until March 2018.


===== ISO/PWI 19626-2

On the NWIP ballot process.


==== PT3 - ISO/WD 20415 Trusted mobile e-document framework

CD ballot was finalized successfully at 2017-11-21.One comment from Belgium is whether it differs from ISO 12812 Mobile Financial Services or not. Webex meeting will be held soon.


=== WG 7 (Digital Business)

Peter Plapper.

==== PT1 - ISO/TS WD 21981 Business Semantics Thesaurus (BST)

This project was also discussed in the MoU/MG meeting. It is a long-term intention. Anders plans to hold the conference call for further discussion.


==== PT2 - ISO/WD 22468 Value Stream Management (VSM)

No discussion


==== PT3 - ISO/DTR 18262 ODIF

Jianfang is the project leader according to plenary meeting resolution. He will arrange the meeting for the project discussion.


=== JWG8 (Logistics data contents and process)

Dapeng(Max) Liu.

* PWI 1 - Business requirements for end-to-end visibility of logistics flow
* PWI 2- Visibility data interchange between logistics information service
providers
* PWI 3- Visibility logistics data interchange interface

Max reported the progress of 3 PWIs. Further clarification and discussion on the scope, outline and concept of 3 PWIs were clarified in the 12-04 meetings. The group made consensus to preparing baseline documents for 3 PWIs for further discussion, and call for participants and contributions.


=== ISO 7372/UNTDED JMA

Sue led the ToR discussion.

It was mentioned in section 3.5 that, "`The secretariat of the MA is the UNECE Secretariat. Leadership of the MA is composed of two co-chairpersons; one designated by the UNECE Secretariat and one designated by the ISO Central Secretariat. Both designated chairpersons should be validated by the other organization.`"

Chair suggest both designated chairpersons should be validated by ISO Central Secretariat. Sue will arrange the related discussion in UNECE.



== Old Business

=== OAGi (Open Applications Group, Inc.) Fast-Track of "`OAGIS - A Specification for an Enterprise Business Canonical`"

No update, TC will wait for David’s response.

== Open Ballots

No discucssion.

* ISO/CD 20415 ballot starts at 2017-09-12, end at 2017-11-21
* SR ISO 14533-2:2012 start at 2017-07-15, end at 2017-12-04
* ISO/NP 19626-2 ballot starts at 2017-11-10, end at 2018-02-02


== Other Business

=== TC154 new public website

No update.

=== TC154 Business plan

Kick off the review and the new version of business plan. Volunteers includes Anders, Ronald, UNECE and Linda.

The business plan will be discussed next year.

=== IPCSA A-liaison application

Application from IPCSA was already approved.

=== CalConnect A-liaison application

Application from CalConnect was already approved.


== Next Meeting

Next Meeting: 2018-01-17, 8:00-9:00pm (UTC+8)

Anders said it is close to the new year, many people are still in vacation on 3rd, Jan.

Chair gave thanks to all of the attendants for the CAT meeting on 6th Dec. and everyone’s good job!
