---
permalink: "/minutes/2018-06-06/"
date: 2018-06-06T00:00:00Z
cat: CAT Minutes
subtitle: ISO/TC 154 CAT Conference Call
tags:  [ISO CS, Liaison]
title: ISO/TC 154 CAT Meeting Minutes 2018-06-06
scheduled_time: 8:00-9:00pm Beijing Time (UTC+8)

participants:
  - Yan Zhang
  - Jasmine
  - Peter Plapper
  - Ray Denenberg
  - Dapeng (Max) Liu
  - Mei-li Chen
  - Linda Wang
  - Jianfang Zhang
  - Khouja Ahmed

excused:
  - Sue Probert
  - Anders Grangard
  - Chris Nelson
  - Mary Kay Blantz
  - Ronald Tse
  - Peter Rybar
  - Christof Oberhausen
secretariat: Jianfang Zhang
chair: Hongru (Judy) Zhu
---
== Approval of Agenda

Approved.

== Approval of 9th May 2018 Meeting Minutes and APs check

Approved.

== Working Group and Project Team Updates

=== JWG 1/MA (EDIFACT Syntax)

Yan Zhang.

Anders was absented from this meeting. Yan reported the background of the potential project about ISO 9735 part 11.

The secretary said it is not possible to have both version 3 and 4 in the ISO website, we can try to make a new version.

Chair suggested that there can be some progress before the Oct plenary meeting, Anders and Yan need to investigate the difference between the version 3 and 4, make some progress in July or August. People who are interested in this can send email to Anders and Yan offline to do this together.

AP21: Anders and Yan need to investigate the difference between the version 3 and 4, and try to make some progress before the Oct plenary meeting.



=== WG 5 (Representation of dates and times)

Ray.

Ray reported the progress of WG5, appreciated his job.

* ISO/DIS 8601-1
* ISO/DIS 8601-2


Ray reported that part 1 will be completed this month and part2 will be ready for FDIS in July.

FDIS draft needs to be ready before August and two ballots need to be finished before Oct so that Oct plenary meeting can have resolutions. FDIS ballot for part1 can be started earlier than part2. Which can be decided by the WG5.

AP22: Two ballots for ISO/DIS 8601-1 and ISO/DIS 8601-2 need to be ready before Oct.


=== WG 6 (Trusted eCommunication)

Jasmine reported on the progress of WG6, appreciated her job.

==== PT1: ISO 14533 Long term signature profiles

===== ISO/WD 14533-4

Peter and Jasmine had a WebEx meeting in 5.18. The latest version is 2018-5-14. They are doing the final version of CD draft and then go to ballot.

Jasmine said that they would try to submit the CD draft in July.

The new expert is the committee member from Japan. The new expert has registered in the WG6.

AP23: Peter Submit the 14533-4 CD ballot before Oct. Jasmine support.


==== PT2: ISO/CD 19626-1 Trusted Communication Platforms for Electronic Documents

Jasmine.

===== ISO/CD 19626-1

The DIS has submitted to ISO/CS , and It is scheduled for DIS ballot (7.26~10.18).

===== ISO/PWI 19626-2

The CD draft will be submitted in August and the CD ballot will start before the Oct plenary meeting.

AP24: Jasmine submits the 19626-2 CD draft in August.

==== PT3: ISO/WD 20415 Trusted mobile e-document framework

Youngkon Lee.

Jasmine reported that DIS draft would be completed at the end of June. DIS ballot may start at the end of July.

Chair suggests that the investigation on 5G related TC (ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 6: Telecommunications and information exchange between systems) might be needed to avoid the overlapping. And also jasmine said Youngkon Lee will send the overlap analysis by email to the chair etc.

AP25: Jianfang submits the 20415 DIS ballot in July after the submission of ISO/DIS 20415 document.

AP26: Youngkon Lee sends the overlap analysis by email to the chair etc.



=== WG 7 (Digital Business)

Peter Plapper.

Peter Plapper shared the progress of WG7, appreciated his job.

==== PT1: ISO/TS WD 21981 Business Semantics Thesaurus (BST)

Peter reported that the list of members interested in participating was never found, and no responses about requesting participants from MoU MG group. The first step is reviewing existing draft and resolving received comments.

Chair suggests that as for the limited time, TC may consider to postpone the project in Oct plenary meeting. It should be decided in the Oct plenary meeting.


==== PT2: ISO/WD 22468 Value Stream Management (VSM)

Peter reported that VSM experts have reviewed current version. Jianfang said that he didn’t start the CD ballot since the comments from Jasmine should be solved and the draft should be updated. Peter will discuss with Jasmine on 6-25 meeting.

AP27: Peter sends updated version in word file to Jianfang after 25th June meeting, and then, Jianfang can start the CD ballot before Oct plenary meeting.




==== PT3: ISO/DTR 18262 ODIF

Jianfang plans to finish the first version before Oct and discuss with Sue.

AP28: Jianfang finishes the first version before Oct and discuss with Sue.


=== JWG8 (Logistics data contents and process)

Dapeng (Max) Liu.

* ISO/PWI 23354 – Business requirements for end-to-end visibility of
logistics flow
* ISO/PWI 23355- Visibility data interchange between logistics
information service providers
* ISO/PWI 23356- Visibility logistics data interchange interface

Max reported that SAC has approved the NWIP proposal. Jianfang will start the NWIP ballot tomorrow. Max will send the new version of draft to Jianfang tonight.

AP29: Max sends the new version of draft to Jianfang tonight. Jianfang start the NWIP ballot tomorrow.

=== ISO 7372/UNTDED JMA


Sue was absent.

Jianfang said that there is an expert from SAC who is ready for the position of co-chair from ISO side, and it is going on the internal China procedure at first. Chair said that the two co-chairs can be nominated by UNECE and ISO/TC 154

AP30: UNECE side needs to decide who will be the co-chair (Sue or Mary)



== Old Business

=== OAGi (Open Applications Group, Inc.) Fast-Track of "`OAGIS - A Specification for an Enterprise Business Canonical`"

Jianfang said that David sent him the OAGIS draft, but the draft needs to be modified to meet the ISO version requirement.

AP31: David provides the draft in ISO version with the guide from Jianfang.

== Open Ballots

* SR ISO 17369:2013 ballot starts at 2018-01-15, end at 2018-06-04

Jianfang reported that the ballot result is listed in the document.

== Other Business

=== TC154 Business plan

Chair only received response from WG7, JWG8.
Other groups (WG5,WG6,JWG1) need to provide the WG scope before July CAG meeting.

AP32: Other group not sending response yet should provide updated business plan before July CAG meeting.

=== ISO/PC 317 liaison officer

Shenzhen Standard Committee and Max volunteer to be the joint liaison officer.

The resolution should be made in Oct plenary meeting.

AP33: The resolution of PC317 liaison officer should be made in Oct plenary meeting.

=== New Zoom platform for new Web Conferencing Service

New Zoom meeting platform will be ready in June 24th. TC will use the new platform after June 24th.


=== New TPM and EPM

The TPM and EPM will be changed, Jianfang will share the information.


=== ISO/TC 154 WG meeting and 37th plenary meeting

Jianfang upload the related documents on the website. If you have registration problem, please email to jianfang.

Jianfang will provide plenary meeting agenda before July CAG meeting.

AP34: Jianfang provides plenary meeting agenda before July CAG meeting.



== Next Meeting

Next Meeting: 2018-07-05, 8:00-9:00pm (UTC+8)
Ray has conflict for national holiday in US. After the discussion, the time of the next CAG meeting will be changed to July 5th.

Chair gave thanks to all of the attendants for the CAG meeting on 6th June and everyone’s good job!


== Action point summary

|===
|No| Action points| Owner| Deadline

|21
|Anders and Yan investigate the difference between version 3 and version 4 before the Oct plenary meeting.
|@Anders, Yan
|2018-09-30

|22
|Two ballots for ISO/DIS 8601-1 and ISO/DIS 8601-2 need to be finished in Oct.
|@Jianfang, Ray
|2018-10

|23
|Jianfang submit the 14533-4 CD ballot before Oct.
|@Jianfang,Peter Ryber
|2018-09-30

|24
|Jianfang submits the 19626-2 CD draft in August.
|@Jianfang, Jasmine
|2018-08

|25
|Jianfang submit the 20415 DIS ballot in July.
|@ Jianfang, Jasmine
|2018-07

|26
|Youngkon Lee sends the overlap analysis by email to the chair etc.
|@ Youngkon Lee, Jasmine
|2018-07-04

|27
|Peter sends updated version in word file to Jianfang after 25th June meeting , and then, Jianfang can start the CD ballot before Oct plenary meeting.
|@Peter Plapper, JIanfang
|2018-07-04

|28
|Jianfang finishes the first version of ISO/DTR 18262 ODIF before Oct and discusses with Sue
|@Jianfang
|2018-09-30

|29
|Max sends the new version of draft to Jianfang tonight. Jianfang start the NWIP ballot tomorrow.
|@Max, Jianfang
|2018-06-07

|30
|UNECE side needs to decide who will be the co-chair (Sue or Mary)
|@Sue
|2018-07-04

|31
|David provides the draft in ISO version with the guide from Jianfang.
|@Jianfang,David
|2018-07-04

|32
|Other group not sending response yet should provide updated business plan before July CAG meeting.
|@WG5,WG6,JWG1
|2018-07-04

|33
|The resolution of PC317 liaison officer should be made in Oct plenary meeting.
|@Chair,Jianfang
|2018-10-12

|34
|Jianfang provides plenary meeting agenda before July CAG meeting.
|@Jianfang
|2018-07-04

|===
