---
permalink: "/minutes/2018-08-22/"
date: 2018-08-22T00:00:00Z
cat: CAT Minutes
subtitle: ISO/TC154 CAT Conference Call
tags:  [ISO CS, Liaison]
title: ISO/TC 154 CAT Meeting Minutes 2018-08-22
scheduled_time: 8:00-9:00pm Beijing Time (UTC+8)

participants:
  - Hongru (Judy) Zhu
  - Anders Grangard
  - Christof Oberhausen
  - Jasmine
  - Jianfang Zhang
  - Ray Denenberg
  - Chris Nelson,Yan Zhang
  - Peter Plapper
  - Peter Rybar
  - Dapeng(Max) Liu
  - Linda Wang.

excused:
  - Sue Probert
  - Lance
  - Mary Kay Blantz
  - Ronald Tse
  - Mei-li Chen
  - Khouja Ahmed
secretariat: JianFang Zhang
chair: Hongru (Judy) Zhu
---

== Approval of Agenda

Approved.

== Approval of 5th July 2018 Meeting Minutes and APs check

Approved.

* On-going APs: AP 20,22,30,31,37
* Delayed APs: AP 24, 25


== Working Group and Project Team Updates

=== JWG 1/MA (EDIFACT Syntax)

Yan reported that Sue and Anders joined the JWG1 meeting.

Anders provided the ppt and reported about the changes between version3 and version 4 (AP21 done), suggest the basic idea about the new part 11 and issues that should be discussed in the plenary meeting.

Chair suggested JWG1 discuss details in the Hangzhou JWG1 meeting. The most important thing is to prepare the draft and NP form4.

As for part 11 procedures, Laura replied to us that it could be restart as PWI without TMB ballot.

Although version 3 was withdrawn, it can be obtained on the website (AP35 done).

*AP40: JWG1 initiate part11 draft and NP form4 discussion in the Hangzhou meeting.*


=== WG 5 (Representation of dates and times)

Ray.

Ray reported that 8601-1 was ready for FDIS ballot and 8601-2 will ready in two weeks. According to the discussion with CS, 8601-1 and 8601-2 will start the FDIS ballot together *(revised AP22)*.

As for dual logo from Calconnect, it related to not only one standard in TC154, but also several standards from other TCs. Procedure discussion will be continued between Calconnect and ISO/CS.

Jasmine said that there were some editorial mistakes in the FDIS draft but she was not sure if it is the final FDIS draft.

*AP41: Jasmine, Ray and Ron check the mistakes in the FDIS draft offline.*

Since the FDIS ballot will not end before the Hangzhou meeting, there will no comment resolution in the Hangzhou meeting, WG5 will start the new project discussion in the Hangzhou meeting. Ron will work on that.



=== WG 6 (Trusted eCommunication)

Chair congratulated Jasmine for the new term of WG6 convenor.

Jasmine reported on the progress of WG6, appreciated her job.


==== PT1 -ISO 14533 Long term signature profiles

===== ISO/WD 14533-4

CD ballot will end in 09-17. Comments resolution of CD ballot will be done at Hangzhou meeting.



==== PT2 -ISO/CD 19626-1 Trusted Communication Platforms for Electronic Documents

===== ISO/CD 19626-1

DIS ballot will end in 10.18.

===== ISO/WD 19626-2

AP24 was delayed. The CD draft was circulated within TC/154 Korean committee members, will be discussed at Hangzhou meeting.

*AP24 (revised): Jasmine sends the 19626-2 CD draft to Jianfang and Jianfang submits the 19626-2 CD draft after the plenary meeting.*

==== PT3 - ISO/WD 20415 Trusted mobile e-document framework

AP25 was delayed. The DIS draft will be discussed in Hangzhou WG6 meeting. Chair reminded that the deadline of DIS is 2018-10-19.

*AP25 (revised): Jasmine sends the 20415 DIS draft to Jianfang Jianfang submit the 20415 DIS ballot after the plenary meeting.*


=== WG 7 (Digital Business)

Peter Plapper.

==== PT1 - ISO/TS WD 21981 Business Semantics Thesaurus (BST)

Anders reported with ppt that comments and draft was reviewed and there will be lots of work to do. He proposed topics to be discussed in the Hangzhou meeting. As for the details, meeting did not discuss too much.


==== PT2 - ISO/WD 22468 Value Stream Management (VSM)

Christof Oberhausen (represent Peter Plapper) reported that CD ballot would end in Sep.14th. Comments resolution of CD ballot will be done at Hangzhou meeting.


==== PT3 - ISO/DTR 18262 ODIF

Jianfang sent the CD draft to WG7.
Next step is draft review in WG7 and start the CD ballot.

=== JWG8 (Logistics data contents and process)

Dapeng (Max) Liu.

* ISO/PWI 23354 – Business requirements for end-to-end visibility of
logistics flow
* ISO/PWI 23355- Visibility data interchange between logistics
information service providers
* ISO/PWI 23356- Visibility logistics data interchange interface

Max reported that NP ballot of 23354 will end in 8-31. There will be a JWG8 meeting in September to discuss the NP 23354 comments and PWI 23354 draft and NP Form 4.

*AP42: If 23354 NP approved, Max and project leader stars comments resolution as soon as possible, in order to achieve potential resolutions of the next step in plenary meeting.*

*AP43: Jianfang sends email to ISO/CS to set up JWG8 formally and validate the nomination JWG8 convenor based on the related resolutions in last plenary meeting.*


=== ISO 7372/UNTDED JMA

Sue.

No discussion due to the absence of Sue.

== Old Business

=== OAGi (Open Applications Group, Inc.) Fast-Track of "`OAGIS - A Specification for an Enterprise Business Canonical`"

No discussion due to the time limit.

== Open Ballots

* Ballot for the liaison officer to ISO/PC 317, end at 2018-07-26
* CIB vote for the ISO/TC154/WG6 convener, end at 2018-08-11
* ISO/NP 23354: CIB ballot starts at 2018-06-07, end at 2018-08-30
* CD ISO/CD 14533-4, end at 2018-09-11
* CD ISO/CD 22468, end at 2018-09-14
* DIS ISO/DIS 19626-1, end at 2018-10-18

No discussion due to the time limit.


== Other Business

=== TC154 Business plan

JWG1 provided the JWG1 scope and comments. As for comment in section 1.2, chair mentioned that there are clarification in MoU Annex A about the division of responsibilities between ISO,IEC, ITU and UNECE. The link is https://www.itu.int/en/ITU-T/ebusiness/Pages/mou/annexa.aspx. Please all review. And also Chair encouraged related people to have offline discussion @Yan, Linda etc.

*AP44: Offline discussion about business plan section 1.2 comments. @Yan, Linda, Jianfang*


=== ISO IEC/JTC1/SC29/WG11 MPEG liaison

Secretary will upload related documents on the website.

*AP45: Jianfang help the liaison set up with ISO IEC/JTC1/SC29/WG11 MPEG.*


=== ISO/TC 154 WG meeting and 37th plenary meeting

* WG meetings schedule
* Plenary meeting Agenda
* Other discussion

After the discussion of WG meeting schedule, it needs to coordinate the JWG1 time slot after the meeting. Now it has been solved.

* 10 OCT morning: NWIP, (9-10:00), and then 10:30—12:30 JWG1 meeting.
* 10 Oct afternoon: JWG1 meeting.
* As for the others, no changes.

*AP46: Jianfang adds the detailed time each day in the WG meeting schedule.*

Chair mentioned that there will be leaders speech in plenary meeting and WG report section will be discussed in Oct.12.

AP20: TC received WG5 and WG6 Hangzhou meeting agenda. Please other WG convenors (JWG1 Yan, WG7 Peter Plapper, JWG8 Max, ISO7372MA Sue) send the draft of WG meeting agenda to secretary and then upload to the website.

Ray and Peter Plapper may access the Hangzhou meeting remotely. Ron will host the

WG5 Hangzhou meeting in person instead of Ray. Peter Plapper will host the WG7 Hangzhou meeting remotely with Anders’ help on the facility of the meeting. Yan, Jasmine, Max, Sue will host their WG Hangzhou meetings in person.

Jianfang will start the liaision set up with PC317 firstly, and then, PC317 liaison officer will be valid.

*AP47: Jianfang help the liaison set up with PC317.*






== Next Meeting

Next Meeting: 2018-09-19(proposed), 8:00-9:00pm (UTC+8)

After the discussion, the next meeting will be held in 2018-09-19, 8:00-9:00pm (UTC+8).


== Ongoing action point summary

[.action-summary]
|===
|No| Action points| Owner| Deadline

|20
|WG convenors send the draft of WG meeting agenda to secretary and then upload to the website.
|@ JWG1 Yan, WG7 Peter Plapper, JWG8 Max, ISO7372MA Sue
|2018/9/18

|22
|Two FDIS ballots for 8601-1 and 8601-2 need to be started together before Plenary meeting.
|@Jianfang, Ray,Ron
|2018/10/07

|24
|Jasmine sends the 19626-2 CD draft to Jianfang and Jianfang submits the 19626-2 CD draft after the plenary meeting.
|@Jianfang, Jasmine
|2018 Oct

|25
|Jasmine sends the 20415 DIS draft to Jianfang. Jianfang submit the 20415 DIS ballot after the plenary meeting.
|@ Jianfang, Jasmine
|2018 Oct

|30
|UN/ECE side needs to decide who will be the co-chair (Sue or Mary)
|@Sue
|2018 Oct

|31
|David provides the draft in ISO version with the guide from Jianfang (OAGi)
|@Jianfang,David
|2018/12/31

|37
|TC will have a discussion in the plenary meeting for the project 21981. If there are little people working on it, we need to think about the reason and have new plan for the future.
|@Anders, Chair, Jianfang
|2018/10/12

|40
|JWG1 initiate part11 draft and NP form4 discussion in the Hangzhou meeting.
|@Anders,Yan
|2018/10/12

|41
|Jasmine, Ray and Ron check the mistakes in the 8601-1 FDIS draft offline.
|@Jasmine, Ray, Ron
|2018/08/31

|42
|If 23354 NP approved, Max and project leader stars comments resolution as soon as possible, in order to achieve potential resolutions of the next step in plenary meeting.
|@Max, Linda Wang
|2018/10/07

|43
|If 23354 NP approved, Jianfang sends email to ISO/CS to set up JWG8 formally and validate the nomination JWG8 convenor based on the related resolutions in last plenary meeting.
|@Jianfang
|2018/10/07

|44
|Offline discussion about business plan section1.2 comments.
|@Yan, Linda,Jianfang
|2018/10/07

|45
|Jianfang help the liaison set up with ISO IEC/ JTC1/SC29/WG11 MPEG
|@Jianfang
|2018/10/07

|46
|Jianfang adds the detailed time each day in the WG meeting schedule.
|@Jianfang
|2018/08/31

|47
|Jianfang help the liaison set up with PC317
|@Jianfang
|2018/10/07

|===
