---
permalink: "/minutes/2018-05-09/"
date: 2018-05-09T00:00:00Z
cat: CAT Minutes
subtitle: ISO/TC154 CAT Conference Call
tags:  [ISO CS, Liaison]
title: ISO/TC 154 CAT Meeting Minutes 2018-05-09
scheduled_time: 8:00-9:00pm Beijing Time (UTC+8)

participants:
  - Peter Rybar
  - Jasmine
  - Sue Probert
  - Ray Denenberg
  - Dapeng (Max) Liu
  - Mei-li Chen
  - Christof Oberhausen
  - Anders Grangard
  - Chris Nelson
  - Linda Wang

excused:
  - Yan Zhang
  - Peter Plapper
  - Mary Kay Blantz
  - Ronald Tse
  - Jianfang Zhang
secretariat: JianFang Zhang
chair: Hongru (Judy) Zhu
---

== Approval of Agenda

Approved.

== Approval of 18th March 2018 Meeting Minutes and APs check

Approved and all
AP2, AP3 and AP5 are still open.

== Working Group and Project Team Updates

=== JWG 1/MA (EDIFACT Syntax)

Yan was absented from this meeting. Anders reported that there is only one potential project which is to investigate if we can provide a profile document to enable interoperability between the UN/EDIFACT syntax version 3 and the latest version 4 by describing a functionally restricted sub-set of the latter. The reason is that majority of users are using version 3 and do not have intention to use the latest version 4. But ISO normally only allow the latest version on the website.

Anders will provide a written proposal including the background and proposal and will discuss this in the June CAG meeting. TC 154 will investigate the background firstly and then consider next step.

AP1: Anders provides a written version of the JWG1 potential project proposal including the background information.



=== WG 5 (Representation of dates and times)

Ray.

Ray reported the progress of WG5, appreciated his job. He will provide slides of WG5 report after the meeting.

* ISO/DIS 8601-1 Ballot Disposition
* ISO/DIS 8601-2 Ballot Disposition


Ray reported that part 1 and part2 will be ready for FDIS around Mid-July. FDIS needs to be completed before Mid OCT so that it can be published in 2019 (The publishing deadline is May 5th 2019).

For the issue of recurrence in part2, Ray will provide answer in weeks.


=== WG 6 (Trusted eCommunication)

Jasmine and Peter Rybar gave a report on the progress of WG6, appreciated their job.


==== PT1 -ISO 14533 Long term signature profiles

===== ISO/WD 14533-4

Peter updated the draft revision of May 7th . One webex meeting was held on 16th March.CD ballot will be started after the completion of the draft.

Peter mentioned that there are new experts who want to join the project but they are not the TC member .ISO’s basic rule is that non-member cannot participate in the writing of the draft. He will send email to Jianfang to ask for on how to go forward.

AP2: Peter send email to Jianfang to ask if and how the new non-member expert joining ISO/WD 14533-4 draft writing.



==== PT2 -ISO/CD 19626-1 Trusted Communication Platforms for Electronic Documents

===== ISO/CD 19626-1

ETSI Steering Group Liaison meeting was held. DIS draft will be completed before June for DIS ballot.

===== ISO/PWI 19626-2

CD draft will be submitted on August.

==== PT3 - ISO/WD 20415 Trusted mobile e-document framework

Jasmine reported that DIS draft will be completed at the end of June. DIS ballot may start at the end of July. Project leader Youngkon Lee can ask Jianfang for the CD ballot procedure.

One of the project directions is to enhance its confidentiality and reliability in 5G. Chair suggested Jasmine to ask Youngkon Lee for relationship with the communications TC which is doing 5G

AP3: Jasmine discusses with Youngkon Lee if their project is related with 5G related TC (ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 6: Telecommunications and information exchange between systems) and possibly reference on it.



=== WG 7 (Digital Business)

Christof shared the progress of WG7 on behalf of Peter Plapper, appreciated his job.


==== PT1 - ISO/TS WD 21981 Business Semantics Thesaurus (BST)

Neither Anders nor Peter have received the list of members interested in joining this project, as presented in previous meetings. Also, there is no feedback on the communication sent from Jianfang to the MoU/MG. Jianfang will check the status of these.

AP4: Jianfang to check the status of the list of members interested in joining BST and feedback from MoU/MG.


==== PT2 - ISO/WD 22468 Value Stream Management (VSM)

Norm draft was sent to Jianfang. Jianfang will upload the draft for CD ballot and send notification email to all the members.

Jasmine said that she is the WG7 member but didn’t receive any email from the project. Christof will forward information to Jasmine. Jianfang will help on this issue.

AP5: Jiangfang upload the VSM draft for CD ballot in the ISO portal and send notification email to all the members.


==== PT3 - ISO/DTR 18262 ODIF

No progress.

=== JWG8 (Logistics data contents and process)

* PWI 1 - Business requirements for end-to-end visibility of logistics flow
* PWI 2- Visibility data interchange between logistics information service
providers
* PWI 3- Visibility logistics data interchange interface

Max reported that new project proposal of PWI 1 is still waiting the approval of SAC.

AP6: Max and jianfang need to make progress on the internal China procedure.


=== ISO 7372/UNTDED JMA

Sue reported that she discussed the JMA/ToR issue within the UN/CEFACT. UN/CEFACT want to know how many people will participate from ISO 154 side. Jianfang is looking for some expert and the new expert probably can join the work with Sue in next month.

AP7: Sue will ask UN/CEFACT regarding the role of Mary Kay Blantz in this JMA.


== Old Business

=== OAGi (Open Applications Group, Inc.) Fast-Track of "`OAGIS - A Specification for an Enterprise Business Canonical`"

Anders said that David is no longer the CEO of OAGi. If there is no progress until OCT, it will be closed.

== Open Ballots

* SR ISO 17369:2013 ballot starts at 2018-01-15, end at 2018-06-04

Still open.

== Other Business

=== TC154 new public website

TC154 decides not to develop the new website because the current link provide enough information for the TC and there is no resource for developing the new website.

=== TC154 Business plan

A revised edition of business plan was sent to WG conveners. WG convenors should update their WG descriptions before the next CAG meeting. The new version of business plan will be discussed on OCT meeting.

The updated WG7 descriptions has no relationship to the e-trade or e-commerce. Christof will discuss with Peter Plapper for the possible modifications.

AP8: Each WG scope update corresponding to the updated Business plan on the @all of the WG conveners


=== TMB Information Update

Jianfang will send email later on the related info.


=== Date time and venue of ISO/TC 154 WG meeting and 37th plenary meeting

 The next WG meetings and plenary meeting will be held in 8-12, Oct. 2018. Jianfang will provide the details later. WG conveners will help Jianfang on the draft agenda before the next June CAG meeting. Jianfang will send the meeting announcement as earlier as possible including visa and hotel information.

There will be a back-to-back UN/CEFACT meeting in the same city-Hangzhou, but not in the same hotel.

 AP9: Jianfang send plenary meeting announcement and start the meeting registration before June because the people need to prepare the VISA and book hotels beforehand。 And jianfang needs to prepare the draft of plenary meeting agenda.

AP10: WG conveners prepare the draft of WG meeting agenda before June CAG meeting.




== Next Meeting

Next Meeting: 2018-06-06 , 8:00-9:00pm (UTC+8)

Sue has conflict meeting conflict on June 6 . chair offline discussed with her the final date will still be on 6th June. Thanks.
Chair gave thanks to all of the attendants for the CAG meeting on 9th May and everyone’s good job!


== Action point summary

|===
|No| Action points| Owner| Deadline

|1
|Provide a written version of the JWG1 potential project proposal including the background information
|@Anders
|2018-06-05

|2
|Peter send email to Jianfang to ask the solution for the new non-member expert joining ISO/WD 14533-4 draft writing.
|@peter ryber, Jianfang
|2018-06-05

|3
|Jasmine discusses with Youngkon Lee if their project is related with 5G related TC (ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 6: Telecommunications and information exchange between systems). If they do future direction on 5G and maybe necessary sync up is needed with the communications related TC (ISO/IEC JTC1/SC6). Just a suggestion.
|@Jasmine, Youngkon Lee
|2018-06-05

|4
|Jianfang check the status for the list of participation from the feedback of MOU/MG.
|@Jianfang
|2018-06-05

|5
|Jiangfang upload the VSM draft for CD ballot and send notification email to all the members.
|@Jianfang
|2018-06-05

|6
|Max and jianfang need to make progress on the internal China procedure.
|@Max, Jianfang
|2018-06-05

|7
|Ask UN/CEFACT regarding the role of Mary Kay Blantz in the JMA.
|@Sue
|2018-06-05

|8
|Update each WG’s scope in business plan.
|@WG conveners
|2018-06-05

|9
|Send plenary meeting announcement and start the meeting registration. Prepare draft meeting agenda and initiate  discussion in CAG.
|@Jianfang
|2018-06-05

|10
|Preparing the draft of WG meeting agenda.
|@ WG conveners
|2018-06-05

|===
