---
permalink: "/minutes/2019-03-20/"
date: 2019-03-20T00:00:00Z
cat: CAT Minutes
subtitle: ISO/TC154 CAT Conference Call
tags:  [ISO CS, Liaison]
title: ISO/TC 154 CAT Meeting Minutes 2019-03-20
scheduled_time: 8:00-9:00pm Beijing Time (UTC+8)

participants:
  - Hongru (Judy) Zhu
  - Ray Denenberg
  - Anders Grangard
  - Jasmine
  - Ronald Tse
  - Peter Plapper
  - Meili-Chen
  - Sue Probert
  - Dapeng(Max) Liu
  - Linda Wang
  - Jianfang Zhang

excused:
  - Yan Zhang
secretariat: JianFang Zhang
chair: Hongru (Judy) Zhu
---
== Approval of Agenda

Approved.

== Approval of 18th Feb 2019 CAG Meeting Minutes

Approved.


== Working Group and Project Team Updates

=== JWG 1/MA (EDIFACT Syntax)

==== ISO/PWI 9735-11

Anders confirmed the Form4 and draft, and he reported that the Form4 and draft were discussed with UNECE experts by teleconference to ensure that it is the joint-work.

*AP60: Yan and Jianfang assist Anders on the ISO/PWI 9735-11 NP submission.*



=== WG 5 (Representation of dates and times)

Ray and Ronald.

==== ISO 8601-1:2019 and ISO 8601-2:2019

Ray reported that the 8601-1 and 8601-2 were published and he provided the promotion plan.

Chair congratulations to the group and encourage Ray and Ronald work together on the promotion plan.

Ray and Ronald will discuss the convenor transition date. Chair welcome Ray to continue to participant in the TC154 activities.

*AP61: Ray and Ronald provide the presentation slides of 8601 (around 20 minutes).*

*AP62: Ronald and Linda provide a short 8601 announcement article draft for ISO Focus, and then CAG members review the article and Jianfang contacts ISO/CS for the publish.*


==== New PWIs

Ronald reported the progress of the three new PWIs. Chair suggest that project of ISO/PWI 34002“ Date and time — Timezone” needs more time to involve more experts before the NP submission, in order to make sure that at least 5 P-members support the project.

Ronald also reported that BIPM will not establish the A-liaison relationship with ISO TC154 due to the lack of their resource, but BIPM experts will help review the projects of date and time.




==== ISO/NP 34000“ Date and time — Concepts and vocabulary”

The NP ballot of the project is ongoing.

==== ISO/PWI 34002“ Date and time — Timezone”

The form4 and draft of the project was completed.

==== ISO/PWI 34003 “ Date and time — Codes for calendar systems”

The form4 and draft of the project were submitted for NWIP ballot.


=== WG 6 (Trusted eCommunication)

Jasmine reported the progress of WG6 projects.


==== PT1 -ISO 14533 Long term signature profiles

===== ISO/PWI 14533-2

Naoto Miyachi.

The project is in the drafting stage.

===== ISO/CD 14533-4

Peter Rybar.

The DIS ballot of the project is ongoing.


==== PT2 -ISO/CD 19626-1 Trusted Communication Platforms for Electronic Documents

Jasmine.

===== ISO/DIS 19626-1

The comments disposition and updated text of the project will be provided at the end of March.

===== ISO/WD 19626-2

CD draft will be circulated in April.

==== PT3 - ISO/CD 20415 Trusted mobile e-document framework

Yongkon Lee.

Comments disposing on DIS ballot.


=== WG 7 (Digital Business)

Peter Plapper.

Peter Plapper and Anders reported the progress of WG7 projects.

==== PT1 – ISO/TS WD 21981 Business Semantics Thesaurus (BST)

The project is on the draft updating.

==== PT2- ISO/CD 22468 Value Stream Management (VSM)

Peter Plapper.

The DIS draft will be completed and sent to Jianfang by April 18th.

==== PT3- ISO/DTR 18262 ODIF

Jianfang.

No progress.


=== JWG8 (Logistics data contents and process)

Dapeng (Max) Liu.

Max reported the progress of JWG8.Chair encouraged the joint work with UNECE.

==== ISO/AWI 23354 – Business requirements for end-to-end visibility of logistics flow

JWG8 meeting was held and UNECE comments resolution was almost finished. The CD draft will be completed and sent to CD ballot before March 26th.

The contributors information will be updated.


==== ISO/PWI 23355- Visibility data interchange between logistics information service providers

Initial Form4 and draft of the project will be discussed with UNECE experts in April UN/CEFACT Forum and the NP submission will be done in April.
The contributors information will be updated.


==== ISO/PWI 23356- Visibility logistics data interchange interface

The project will be discussed after the project ISO/PWI 23355 is submitted.


=== ISO 7372/UNTDED JMA

Sue.

==== ISO/PWI “Alignment between ISO 7372, UN/EDIFACT EDED+UNCL and UN/CEFACT/CCL”

Sue reported that under ISO procedures, Maintenance Agencies cannot be “Joint.” The UNECE feels strongly that this work is a core UN deliverable, it needs to be 100% aligned to other UN/CEFACT deliverables and as such cannot be maintained outside of UN/CEFACT at this time.

UN/CEFACT will launch a revision of the current UNTDED as a UN/CEFACT project after its Plenary. ISO TC154 members are welcome to join the development work. Once the development work has been completed, the UNECE will submit the final draft for Public Review to ISO TC154 in order to go through the appropriate ISO approval procedures to ensure that the deliverable ISO 7372 is aligned with the update, if TC154 so wish.


*AP63: Sue shares the presentation about the ISO PWI 23899 project timeline, plan and member list in the next CAG meeting.*

*AP64: Chair will organize a teleconference among Sue, Lance, Jianfang and Chair to discuss the issue on ISO 7372/UNTDED “joint” MA procedure.*


=== New PWIs


Ronald reported that the draft of the NWIP submission of three PWIs were being finalized.

* ISO/PWI 36001 “Standardization documents — Metanorma — Document metamodel”
* ISO/PWI 36002 “Standardization documents — Metanorma — Representation in XML”
* ISO/PWI 56001 “ Directory — Standardized profile — Persons and organizations”



== Open Ballots

No discussion.

* SR ISO 7372:2005 (Ed 3, vers 3) 2019-03-04
* DIS ISO/DIS 20415 2019-03-13, ballot was approved
* DIS ISO/DIS 14533-4 2019-04-24
* NP ISO/NP 34000 2019-04-29
* SR ISO 9735:1988 (vers 3) 2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-1:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3) 2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-2:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3) 2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-3:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3) 2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-4:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3) 2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-5:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3) 2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-6:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3) 2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-7:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3) 2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-8:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3) 2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-9:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3) 2019-06-04




== Other Business

=== Oct 2019 Pleneary meeting

Peter plapper reported that welcome brochure will be provided and the time and location were fixed (14.10-18.10.2019, Luxembourg, Campus Kirchberg). Invitation letter will be issued by UL but Dean mandates the list of invitees.

Chair suggest offline discussion on this issue.

*AP65: Peter plapper, Linda and Jianfang discuss offline and provide the way for 154 members to obtain visa letter.*



=== Possibility liaison from ISO/IEC/JTC1/SC41

Max, Ronald, Jianfang and Linda offline worked on the liaison letter. Chair suggest continue the offline discussion on this issue.

=== Possibility liaison with ITU

An invitation letter has been emailed to ITU to invite ITU to be liaison with ISO/TC154.

Ronald reported that ITU approved the A-liaison with ISO TC154 internally and plan to publish the standard in ITU. Chair emphasized that Ronald should find a contact person in ITU-T and monitor the progress of timezone project in ITU to make sure the work obeys the IPR policy and related procedures in ISO. Jianfang will help with this issue.


=== Possibility new 154 website

Ronald proposed the design of the new 154 website with the history documents retrieved from the old domain. Chair mentioned that the website link and the website contents should obey the ISO procedure.

*AP66: Ronald provide the detail website plan.*

*AP67: CAG members comment on the design of Website and provide the content of website.*

*AP68: After the website established and provisionally run for some time, Jianfang contacts with ISO/CS for the ISO internal link or external link.*


=== TMB resolution and Communiqué Issue

Jianfang reported the related document N1012 and N1013, and he reminded that convenors should hold WG meetings with the registration in the ISO meeting platform.



== Action Review

AP 55, 56 and 59 was done. AP57 and AP58 is ongoing.

AP53(Sue) was delayed and planned to be done in the next CAG meeting (revised as AP64).

Chair mentioned that the purpose of checking the status of APs is to reminder CAG member to complete the APs to make sure the progress on the ISO TC154 projects.



== Next Meeting

Next Meeting: 2019-04-24 Wednesday, 8:00-9:00pm (UTC+8)

Chair gave thanks to all of the attendants for the CAG meeting on 20th March and everyone’s good job!
