---
title: ISO/TC 154 CAT Meeting Minutes 2019-06-05
subtitle: ISO/TC154 CAT Conference Call
cat: CAT Minutes
tags:  [ISO CS, Liaison]
date: 2019-06-05T00:00:00Z
permalink: "/minutes/2019-06-05/"
scheduled_time: 8:00-9:00pm Beijing Time (UTC+8)

participants:
  - Hongru (Judy) Zhu
  - Jianfang Zhang
  - Yan Zhang
  - Anders Grangard
  - Jasmine Chang
  - Ronald Tse
  - Peter Plapper
  - Dapeng (Max) Liu
  - Lin (Linda) Wang
  - Mei-li Chen
  - Jeff Mangers

excused:
  - Sue Probert
  - Ray Denenberg

excerpt: >-
  <p>
    Agenda: approved.
  </p>

secretariat: Jianfang Zhang
chair: Hongru (Judy) Zhu
---
== Approval of Agenda

Approved.

== Approval of 24th April 2019 CAG Meeting Minutes

Approved.


== Working Group and Project Team Updates

=== JWG 1/MA (EDIFACT Syntax)

==== ISO/PWI 9735-11

Yan reported that the NP ballot of the project is ongoing.

She also mentioned that more experts should be involved in the project. This issue she needs further discussion with Anders etc to see how to involve more. And then will be discussed next time.


=== WG 5 (Representation of dates and times)

Ronald reported the 8601 introduction presentation slides.

*AP72: Ronald provides a shorter version of 8601 slides and circulate it to ISO154 CAG member and also WG5 members for review.*

*AP73: WG5 prepares 8601 standards introduction article (1-2 pages) for the possible ISO focus publication later after CAG and chair review.*

*AP74: related WG needs to consider what materials can be published in the ISO related website. E.g, 8601, logistics introduction, or sth else.  Not rush, before Oct meeting, we can have an initial discussion. Ronald and linda pls, coordinate on this and motivate people.*

Ronald also reported the progress of 3 new projects. New BSI expert has joined. Project kick off meeting was scheduled.

Ronald needs to still think about and find some way about how to ensure the standard quality and have more experts to join the projects. E.g, offline discussion with chair and other experts etc.


==== ISO/AWI 34000 Date and time — Concepts and vocabulary

The NP ballot of the project was completed.


==== ISO/PWI 34200 Date and time — Timezone

Draft and Form4 were completed. ITU liaison was established.
Chair suggest Ronald discuss with Jianfang about the IPR, procedure, etc., matters regarding cooperation with ITU.

*AP75: Ronald will provide slides to introduce the IPR, procedure and historical experience regarding cooperation between ISO and ITU in the next CAG meeting.*

==== ISO/NP 34300 Date and time — Codes for calendar systems

The NP ballot of the project is ongoing.

=== WG 6 (Trusted eCommunication)

Jasmine reported the progress of WG6 projects.

==== PT1: ISO 14533 Long term signature profiles

===== ISO/PWI 14533-2

Naoto Miyachi.

The project is still in the drafting stage. Slow, need to catch up with.


===== ISO/DIS 14533-4

Peter Rybar.

Peter Rybar reported that he had solved all the comments and provided the final draft of ISO 14533-4. Jianfang clarified that it will directly go to IS instead of FDIS for publication.


==== PT2: ISO/CD 19626-1 Trusted Communication Platforms for Electronic Documents

Jasmine.

===== ISO/DIS 19626-1

The final text of the project was submitted for publication.

===== ISO/WD 19626-2

The draft will be submitted by the end of June.

==== PT3: ISO/DIS 20415 Trusted mobile e-document framework

Yongkon Lee.

Jianfang clarified that it will directly go to IS instead of FDIS for publication.


=== WG 7 (Digital Business)

Jeff Mangers reported the progress of the WG7 projects on behalf of Peter Plapper.

ODIF and BST projects lack participants. Offline, both Jianfang and Anders may consider about this issue.

*AP76: Jianfang considers how to go forward with ODIF project to make it technical report as summary or keep it as it is and talk with WG7 convener before the Oct. plenary meeting. And then Oct meeting, we need to make decision.*


==== PT1 – ISO/WD TS 21981 Business Semantics Thesaurus (BST)

Anders.

Anders reported that he was updating the draft. Details can be discussed next CAG meeting.

==== PT2: ISO/CD 22468 Value Stream Management (VSM)

Peter Plapper.

The DIS comments resolution of ISO/CD 22468 was ongoing.


==== PT3: ISO/PRF TR 18262 ODIF

Jianfang.

Jianfang reported that the call for experts ballot is ongoing. If the result shows no more participants, he will contact with ISO/CS.

Chair suggested this project may be published as a technical report, and this will be discussed in the Oct. plenary meeting.



=== JWG8 (Logistics data contents and process)

Dapeng (Max) Liu.

Max reported the progress of JWG8.

Jianfang will help on the ISO 23355 NWIP submission.

==== ISO/CD 23354 – Business requirements for end-to-end visibility of logistics flow

CD ballot was approved and the group is working on comments resolution. The updated draft for DIS will be completed in July.

==== ISO/PWI 23355- Visibility data interchange between logistics information service providers

Two meetings were held in May. The Form4 and draft were completed and will be submitted in July.


=== New PWIs

Ronald reported that the draft of the NWIP submission of three PWIs will be finalized very soon.

As for a potential new working group for the 3 new PWIs, there are several proposals to be further considered. Chair mentioned that the final decision will be made in the Oct. plenary meeting. Now it is just discussion.

. The potential new working group can be established as a new “study group”, or reopen old Working Group 4. NWIP ballot of the three projects can be initiated firstly so that there will be more P-members and O-members join the projects.

. ISO experts join the Calconnect working group. But this may seem like not ISO work then. So I don’t think it can be approved by ISO procedure.

. Calconnect members (around 14 experts) join the ISO TC154 potential new working group or SG.

==== ISO/PWI 36001 "`Standardization documents — Metanorma — Document metamodel`"

==== ISO/PWI 36002 "`Standardization documents — Metanorma — Representation in XML`"

==== ISO/PWI 56001 "` Directory — Standardized profile — Persons and organizations`"


== Open Ballots

Jianfang reported that the system review of all ISO 9735 standards was finished and circulated to the 154 members. Jianfang will update.

* Call for experts to participate in ISO/TR 18262 2019-06-25
* NP ISO/NP 34300 2019-06-27
* NP ISO/NP 9735-11 2019-08-07
* SR ISO 15000-5:2014 2019-09-02
* DIS ISO/DIS 14533-42019-04-24
* NP ISO/NP 34000	2019-04-29
* CIB ballot for ITU-T to establish A-liaison with ISO/TC154	2019-05-10
* CD ISO/CD 23354 2019-05-27
* SR ISO 9735:1988 (vers 3)	2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-1:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3)	2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-2:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3)	2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-3:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3)	2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-4:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3)	2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-5:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3)	2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-6:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3)	2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-7:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3)	2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-8:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3)	2019-06-04
* SR ISO 9735-9:2002 (Ed 2, vers 3)    2019-06-04





== Other Business

=== Oct 2019 Plenary meeting

There will be two meeting rooms for the Oct. 2019 plenary meeting.

*AP77: WG conveners needs to check the draft meeting agenda and provide the requirement (date preference and length of time slot) for the meeting agenda to Chair and Jianfang before June 7th (Friday).*

Jianfang will send the final meeting schedule to ISO/CS by the next Friday.

=== Possibility liaison from ISO/IEC/JTC1/SC41

Jianfang will initiate the SC41 liaison ballot (AP71 is done).


=== New 154 Website

Ronald reported that he received the website content from JWG8, WG5 and WG6. Ronald will contact with other WG conveners to provide brief information about their WGs (AP67 is ongoing).

=== Questionnaire on ISO TCs' experience of working with SMART standards

The feedback of the ISO questionnaire was finished. Chair encouraged 154 CAG members to consider about the ISO SMART related information.


== Action Review

Chair reminded CAG members to obey the procedure and finish APs in time.


== Next Meeting

The CAG meeting time (16-17:00pm, UTC+8; 10:00-11:00am, UTC+2) will be same time for this summer.

Chair gave thanks to all of the attendants for the CAG meeting on 5th June and everyone’s good job!

